[ Music ]
>> Lisa Garr: Hi, I'm Lisa Garr,
host of Gaiam Inspirations.
Are you struggling with what
your dream is, or are you trying
to figure out exactly how
to make that dream happen?
Or maybe you've been
on a spiritual journey
for a long time and
you still don't feel
like you're getting
what you want.
Well, joining me is Mary
Morrissey, she's the founder
of Life Solutions and she
helps people reduce the stress
in their lives and turn their
possibilities into realities,
which I think would actually
reduce a lot of stress.
>> Mary Morrissey:
Sure, it does.
>> Lisa: So welcome.
>> Morrissey: Thank you.
>> Lisa: So, tell
me a little bit
about why you think people
don't achieve what they want
in their lives?
Like what's the main
reason do you see?
>> Morrissey: I think
that deep down,
many of us have been trained
to have possibility blindness
that we think-- we see
a possibility out there
but we're blind to the power
that we really have inside
of ourselves to make choices and
create mindsets and take steps
that literally move us from
this life to this life.
We just don't know how to do it.
So we've been trained to think
when I have the money,
when I have the time.
And we look to circumstances
for permission
and that creates a
possibility blindness
so we think we can have it.
>> Lisa: Or, somebody
else can have it
that is more maybe
deserving, that has more money,
or I've been dealt such a
rough deck in life I can't have
that particularl thing.
But you're not a stranger
to being dealt a
rough deck, are you?
>> Morrissey: No, I'm not.
>> Lisa: My gosh, you have
resilience like I've never see.
So, let's talk about
your life a little bit.
We have some photos here
that you've shared
with us, thank you.
This photo we're looking
at here is a picture
of your family, right?
>> Morrissey: Yeah, it is.
That is my older sister on the
left and myself and my parents.
I was born and raised in a
family in Portland, Oregon.
My mom and dad lived and
loved together for 63 years
'til my dad passed away, and
had a great upbringing.
My sister was eight years
older, went off to college
and my high school
experience was
like any young girl
dreams about.
I was class vice-president,
on the drill team, had
a lead in the junior play,
I'm homecoming princess.
At the end of my junior year
in high school, I get pregnant
and my high school boyfriend had
gone up to college, came home,
on spring break, I got pregnant
and May 1, I tell my mom
and dad I'm now pregnant.
My mother wept for
me as if I had died.
>> Lisa: Oh, my God.
>> Morrissey: In her
mind, all her dreams
for me were dying and-- we had a
very hasty 10-person wedding.
>> Lisa: Wow.
>> Morrissey: Yeah.
>> Lisa: And we have a picture
here of you as a junior, yes?
>> Morrissey: Yeah, that
came after the next step
because the next step was
that the principal called me
into his office and said, "Mary,
I understand you're pregnant
and married and we need to
let you know, you're not going
to be able to return to here,"
to the high school I've been in.
That picture is the
next high school, Lisa.
>> Lisa: Oh, so you couldn't--
>> Morrissey: The
next high school--
>> Lisa: -- graduate
from that school?
>> Morrissey: No, they
sent me to a high school
that had pregnant girls and
delinquent boys and it was an
after dark high school.
And it was a very difficult
era where you couldn't--
I was told I couldn't come
back to the high school I was
in because it would
be inappropriate
for a pregnant girl to get
mixed in with the normal girls.
And so, I want to-- and I
just encourage our listener
or our viewer to think about
where you were at the beginning
of your senior year, 'cause
where I was was I'm walking
up to a school with this
Washington High School during
the day for the normal
kids in Portland, Oregon,
and at night it became
Washington Evening School.
They didn't put up a new sign
but it became Washington
Evening High School
for the pregnant girls or girls
who had babies or were pregnant
and the guys who were
some form of delinquent.
And this was my new
student body.
It was both scary and shaming.
>> Lisa: How-- And you had come
from being the class vice
president and drill team
and all of that to this.
What happened to your
reality at that point?
What decisions did you
make about yourself?
>> Morrissey: Well, I didn't--
you know, many times we make
decisions about ourselves
that we're not aware of, right?
>> Lisa: Right.
>> Morrissey: I didn't even
know the decisions I was making
about myself until
about a year later.
The picture we're
seeing is when I graduate
from high school in May of 1967.
My son had been born
in December.
Now I graduate from
Washington Evening High School.
And two months later, I'm
in an intensive care ward
in hospital having
been diagnosed
with fatal kidney disease.
One kidney was totally
destroyed with nephritis.
The other kidney had 50 percent
destruction, active nephritis.
And in 1967, this
is a death sentence.
We don't have dialysis,
we don't have transplant.
And I'm--
>> Lisa: And you were 18?
>> Morrissey: Eighteen.
>> Lisa: Eighteen.
>> Morrissey: And I'm-- I've
got a seven-month-old son.
My mother was watching him
while his dad is working.
>> Lisa: Oh, my God.
>> Morrissey: And I'm told that
if we can reduce the blood toxin
in my-- level in my body enough
to remove the right kidney,
then maybe I will
have six months
to live and I'm terrified.
And the God of my upbringing
was not a friendly place to go
when you felt like
you'd really screwed up
and that's how I felt.
>> Lisa: So you're
being punished?
>> Morrissey: And deep
down, that was my belief
that I was being punished
for being a bad girl
and shaming myself and
my school and my family.
And finally,
and the only reason I knew
that is the night before
the surgery, a woman walked
into my
room who identified herself
as a chaplain offering prayer
for people who were going
to have surgery the next day and
asked me if I wanted somebody
to pray with me and
I was scared.
And I said, "OK."
She didn't
do anything that looked
like anything I knew
about prayer.
She pulled her chair next
to my bed and she said, "So,
tell me what's been going
on in your life the
last year or two?"
And I told her my story and
at the end of which she said,
"Mary, everything's
created twice."
And it went ptchoo!
"Yeah, what are you
talking about?"
She said,
"You know this.
In fact, everybody knows
that almost nobody knows
the power of knowing it.
The bed you're lying on, the
nightgown you're wearing,
the sheet covering you, the
walls, the ceiling, the floor,
all the machinery you're
hooked up to, first,
it had to be a thought
before it could be a thing."
Then she said again,
"You know this."
She said, "And since
we're now thinking
about how everything
is created twice,
I hear how much you
love your little boy
and I also hear how much
you've been hating yourself.
You feel like you
shamed yourself
and you shamed your family
and you shamed your school,
and now that you're thinking
how everything is created twice,
I'm wondering if
you couldn't see
that there could
be a correlation
between that toxic
thinking and the toxicity
that is rampaging in your body--
>> Lisa: Wow.
>> Morrissey: -- and
threatening your very life."
And then she gave me-- Lisa,
10 years later after I studied,
what have happened I would call
it a technology or a new mindset
but she gave me a mental tool
and an emotional tool for how
to use my mind after
the surgery.
The surgery was going to
happen the next morning.
And she asked me
if I could believe
that I could have a
complete healing that night
and in the morning the
doctors would say, "Get up.
Go home, you're fine."
Could you believe--
can you believe
that that's even possible?
And I told her the truth, "No,
I don't believe that's
going to happen."
>> Lisa: Right.
>> Morrissey: I believed way
more in my pain
than anything she
was saying to me.
But then she said, "All right.
If you can't believe
that's possible,
could you believe it's possible
that we could cause everything
through a prayer, just
words and I'm going to say,
but if you could help just
even consider there in--
think of the universe",
she said,
"Think of every possibility
that could ever exist.
Couldn't there be one where we
could have used our imaginations
and get everything that's
causing this toxicity.
That's a genesis of this disease
in you to be swept
into that one kidney and
when it's removed instead
of getting worse
you get better."
Is that even possible?
I didn't know it was possible.
Certainly no, MD had
told me it was possible
but I could tell she
believed it was possible.
And I said, well, I
don't know, but maybe--
>> Lisa: Even though, she didn't
know how and it wouldn't matter.
>> Morrissey: Well,
she didn't tell me how.
She just said, "Could
you believe
that there is a possibility
in which this could exist?"
>> Lisa: OK.
>> Morrissey: And then I
could tell she believed it.
So, I said, "Well, I don't
know, maybe it's possible,"
And she's...
So we-- in 1967, we knew
nothing about really mind,
body connection, we
didn't have a
>> Lisa: Law of attraction or--
>> Morrissey: We didn't
have a mind-body clinic
at Harvard Medical
Teaching Center.
We didn't have Borders and
Barnes and Nobles
with acres of self help
books around this topic.
Nor did we have
our new understanding
around quantum physics,
but she knew
that all she needed was one
corner of my mind opened
to the possibility
and that's what I hope
for our viewer today.
Is that when we're--
by the time we're done,
there will be one corner
of each person's mind open
to a possibility for their
life that's beyond anything
that they've ever really
thought could happen to them.
So she said, "OK."
I said, "Maybe."
And she said, "That's
all we need,
one corner of your mind
open at the possibility.
Let's work with that."
She-- I don't know what word
she said. It wasn't-- no
hair on my neck stood up.
I didn't hear bells ring.
It wasn't like that.
She left. I went to sleep.
But the next thing was they--
excuse me, when they woke me up,
I remember thinking,
"Wow, I slept all night."
I hadn't been able to do that
in weeks no matter how much pain
medication they gave
me because of the pain.
They did the surgery,
removed the right kidney.
And what she told
me to do was this.
She said, "When-- after
you wake up from the surgery,
shortly thereafter, it's
not going to be very long
and your mind is going to want
to go pick up that shame again,
it's like a rubber band."
>> Lisa: OK.
>> Morrissey:
It'll want to go back
and think those thoughts again.
Here's what I want you to do."
She said, "You told me,"
and here's the next slide,
"You told me you want
to be a teacher,"
and that had been my dream
since I was a little girl.
Originally, I thought it
was classical, you know,
classical classroom teaching.
It turned out not to
be that kind of teaching,
but I knew I always wanted to be
a teacher and that look right.
Now I'm pregnant.
I've got a little boy.
Is this ever going to happen?
"So here's what I
want you to do.
I know how much you
love your little boy,
so when your mind wants to think
those thoughts about yourself,
those bad thoughts
about yourself, say, no.
That left with the
kidney and then imagine",
and she gave me three
imaginations, "Imagine,
feel of your little
boy's hand in yours.
He's five years old
and you're walking in--
you're walking him into
his kindergarten class
and down the hallway is your
classroom, imagine that.
And imagine sitting
in the front row
of his high school
graduation, you're in a stadium,
you're in a big auditorium of
some kind, and he's walking
across the stage the
pride you feel, and
how happy you are to see your
son graduate from high school
and your teaching
career is growing.
And imagine sitting in the
front row of his wedding
and he's marrying
the love of his life
and your teaching
career is flourishing.
Just put on those three
imaginations and then go
about your daily life.
And every time it comes up, say
no that left with the kidney
and then put yourself in
these possible futures,
but it's very important
that you feel his hand,
that you feel your emotion,
that you literally see
yourself inside the picture."
She gave me a prescription
for how to set a mindset.
She didn't even tell me that.
I didn't know it was a
technology or a way to set...
>> Lisa: Wait, all this
happened that night?
>> Morrissey: That
night, but the big thing
that happened was I did
what she told me to do.
>> Lisa: You listened, yes.
>> Morrissey: I did
what she told me to do.
And my numbers started
to improve gradually.
And two weeks later, I went home
to my parents' house
in an ambulance.
And was in the urologist
office frequently like three
or four times a week
for several weeks
but my numbers steadily
started improving.
And finally about
120 days later,
I'm sitting at the surgeon
and the specialists were there
and they're looking
at the reports
and they're shaking their
heads and they said,
"This is a medical anomaly.
We have no medical reason
for what has happened
that your right-- your left
kidney should be functioning
perfectly but whatever
you're doing keep doing it."
And that was the end of that.
>> Lisa: Did you make a
connection there that it was
because of what you
were thinking or you--
>> Morrissey: I don't
think I was aware enough--
>> Lisa: Not then?
>> Morrissey: -- at that point.
I just was-- it was-- I can
tell you, I was not aware enough
but what I did have was
I thought something is
happening here.
I need to know more if
I'm part of something
that is much more powerful
and much more amazing
than I had any idea of.
>> Lisa: That's amazing.
Yes.
>> Morrissey: And I've-- I
studied with everything I could.
I studied-- I got into an
undergraduate school.
I got a Master's Degree
in Counseling Psychology.
I attended a seminary.
I earned my way to
an experience where--
yeah, I began to understand
that every thought we have,
not only has a vibration
to it, everything has--
just like your television.
>> Lisa: Yes.
>> Morrissey: You know, people
get to watch Lisa Garr today,
because they knew what
frequency to tune to.
>> Lisa: OK.
>> Morrissey: And if they
tuned to a different frequency,
they're not going
to see Lisa Garr.
They're going to
see somebody else.
And once we begin to
realize that our dream--
once we get to know our dream
in our mind, we can begin
to get connected to it and
things began to change for me.
>> Lisa: Did you remember
having the thoughts of--
those future pacing
thoughts that she was giving you
at the time that you got
that final bill of health?
>> Morrissey: I knew--
>> Lisa: Were you
practicing the work that you--
>> Morrissey: I was
practicing it but it wasn't--
I was paying more
attention at that point.
It was just wherever I
would start to feel bad
about myself I would see myself.
And what happened was I got
involved in those images
so I thought, "Well, if
I am going to be walking
down the hall and getting
into that classroom,
what would I do?"
>> Lisa: Well...
>> Morrissey: I'd
sign up for one class.
I can't go to college right now
but I could sign
up for one class.
>> Lisa: So, you really
worked those images?
>> Morrissey: I started
doing the thing I could do
with what I did have and it
started moving both the energy,
my biology, and my psychology.
>> Lisa: Absolutely.
So then you-- I mean, now
that we know about the power
of the brain and the way
that the brain fires and all
of the different parts of
your brain that you can use,
you were applying the
science that we now are aware
of through physics and
quantum physics back then,
which is amazing.
>> Morrissey: Yeah.
>> Lisa: And that--
>> Morrissey: Frankly,
any really successful person has
done most of them unconsciously
without knowing what they were
doing why they were creating
massive success.
>> Lisa: Will-- yeah.
And the call it will
and so forth.
So now, fast forward to
you being a teacher--
>> Morrissey: Yeah.
>> Lisa: -- and you
speaking and--
>> Morrissey: It
has opened up doors
that learning how we
can set an intention,
follow that intention put a
mindset, match a mindset,
take actions with
what we do have
from where we are has opened
doors for me from speaking all
over the world with friends
like Bob Proctor and Wayne Dyer.
And I've met many of the
people that are on your show--
>> Lisa: Yes.
>> Morrissey: -- and the
great teachers of our era.
I've been very blessed.
Over my life, I've built
two very successful businesses,
had many ups and downs.
>> Lisa: And you met the
Dalai Lama as we speak.
>> Morrissey: I had
the opportunity to--
along with the Association
for Global New Thought host
and facilitate
three week-long meetings
with him, which was his dream.
He wanted to have three meetings
over a period of seven years
where he would invite world
leaders to discuss how
to solve collaboratively the
largest issues facing our world.
And he wanted a group--
he wanted a few facilitators
who could understand,
appreciate the many variant
religions that were going
to be sitting inside that
room, the many view points,
and help people come to a
synthesis of their genius
rather than fighting
around different viewpoints
to bring to a higher
viewpoint and I was selected.
I sat right next to him for a
week and then a couple
of years later...
>> Lisa: What was that like?
>> Morrissey: It was powerful.
I think the most
powerful-- it was powerful.
I think the most powerful part
of it was to see him be such--
everything you've ever heard
about him-- and what had--
I had always wanted to ask
him, "How do you do it?
How do you have 40 years of
oppression on you, your people,
and yet in anything I
read or hear of you,
I never hear one wavelength
of bitterness or victimhood,
how do you use your mind?"
So that-- I think if we would
cut anybody a little slack--
>> Lisa: Oh my gosh.
>> Morrissey: -- or
being a little bitter
or a little victim--
>> Lisa: Yes.
>> Morrissey: -- so
much is going on.
And he's very careful
to distinguish and say,
"This is not the Chinese people.
This is a Chinese
government that has sought
to decimate Tibet."
And I work pieces--
when I finally got to ask
that question, he said,
"I worked vigorously for
the freedom of Tibet.
But here's what I know in life."
He said, "We all have friends,
friends easy love, easy forgive.
But we have our sacred
friends, very,
very difficult sacred friends,
very, very difficult." He said,
"Without Chinese government,
I would never have had
to evolve my heart to be
bigger than that pain."
>> Lisa: Oh, my goodness
>> Morrissey: Big topic.
>> Lisa: But what a
question you even asked,
how do you use your mind?
How do you use your mind?
>> Morrissey: He said most
people feel compassionate
after the fact.
He said, I have learned
to generate compassion not
because of conditions
but because condition is
the highest vibration,
highest vibration
for mind and heart.
>> Lisa: Well, this goes
along with what, of course,
you have a quote here
from Thomas Edison.
>> Morrissey: Yes.
>> Lisa: And he says something
similar about physics.
This is not new information.
It's just--
>> Morrissey: No.
No. Yes, Edison said, "I
know this world is ruled
by infinite intelligence."
And how he knew it was
he had been as a kid.
At 14, 15, 16, his job was
as a telegraph operator
in the mountains, in the,
you know, middle south,
running a telegraph at
night, it was a nightshift.
And he would wait for
those little signals
for the telegraph to do his job.
And all through those
nights, he began to realize
that he was receiving other
signals, signals to his mind,
ideas, and some of them
had electricity to them.
He would call them later,
but like sparks in them.
And later, he would say in life,
I mean this man arguably
and what the Smithsonian
says, "The greatest inventor
that humankind has ever
known, and he began to realize
that if you paid close attention
to the ideas that came his way
that seemed expansive."
They have some spark to them.
>> Lisa: OK.
>> Morrissey: And
he wrote them down.
Even if he had no idea
how to do them, he said,
he would later say, "I never met
a piece of paper I didn't like.
I wrote down every
idea that came my way.
I would circle the ones
that had electricity in them
and start to act on them."
>> Lisa: Interesting.
>> Morrissey: Amazing.
>> Morrissey: So he said,
"I know this world is ruled
by infinite intelligence."
We know today-- if you
go to the Smithsonian,
you'll see in his
own hand writing.
"I shall discover and
deliver for the world a system
of illumination that shall
completely replace our current
dependency on oil
lamp illumination."
Up until just 110 years ago
or so, if we wanted light
after dark, we had to light
a fire, light an oil lamp.
>> Lisa: Right, right.
>> Morrissey: In almost
100,000 years of human history,
upright frontal lobe, self
reflected beings
up until 100 years ago.
And this guy says, "There's got
to be another way to do it."
And he went to what he called
the land of the solution.
He knew that the mind
that he thought the idea
up in had a solution.
He didn't know the solution yet
but the mind, the idea was in.
You couldn't have the idea
except the vehicle towards
expression existed.
There's probably, you know,
eight or nine billion computers
on the planet today
but there's not eight
or nine billion internets,
there's one internet,
but each computer
has an interface.
They say there are seven billion
of us upright humans
on the planet today.
>> Lisa: OK.
>> Morrissey: But there's
not seven billion minds,
there's one mind.
>> Lisa: One mind.
>> Morrissey: And
you and I interface
with both what's happening in
our conditions and the idea
of the land of ideas
that we can tap into
and think any idea we want.
It cost no money.
It takes no more time--
>> Lisa: Right.
>> Morrissey:-- to think
how big a wonderful idea
than a little one.
>> Lisa: Just like you show
here with Eleanor Roosevelt
and with amazing people.
>> Morrissey: Yeah.
She had a great quote.
Hers was, "All the water
in the world can't drown you
unless it gets inside of you."
>> Lisa: Now, why did
you seek that quote out?
>> Morrissey: I sought that
quote out because I went
through a rough path in my life.
I was married to my
son's dad for 27 years.
We had four children together.
If we'd waited five years,
we knew that we would not have
married each other we were
really never suited--
>> Lisa: OK.
>> Morrissey: --
as great partners.
But we were great
parents together
and we were great friends.
>> Lisa: This is the
one that you had the--
>> Morrissey: First child.
All four of my birth
kids, all we've--
>> Lisa: So you married
very, very young?
>> Morrissey: I married
very, very young.
We were married 'til in our
early '40s, divorced.
I-- A couple of years later,
married a second husband
who was a CPA, brilliant and had
some depression and in the midst
of an era of his life
had a bipolar episode
and mingled money between
numerous companies,
one of which was a company
I had founded and built,
and I lost everything.
I lost-- he ended in a mental
hospital, went to prison.
It was horrific.
I went from being the poster
child on the newspaper
of the state I'd
grown up in for meeting
the Dalai Lama
or with the UN.
I spoke with the UN three
times or national selling books
and all the great work--
>> Lisa: Wow.
>> Morrissey: -- to being
presented on the media
of Portland as a minister
who was fleecing her flock.
And it took awhile for them to
realize what had really happened
but it wasn't nearly
as interesting
as the other sort of
dramatic stories--
>> Lisa: Story.
>> Morrissey: --
that got presented.
>> Lisa: Right.
>> Morrissey: And
I lost the work.
I lost my house, the marriage.
>> Lisa: Oh, my goodness.
>> Morrissey: It was--
I completed that work
but it was devastating
on the level of personal hurt.
I felt betrayed, I felt used,
I felt all the feelings
that any of us--
>> Lisa: Shamed?
>> Morrissey: -- shamed, yeah.
>> Lisa: Back to those
feelings when you were 18.
>> Morrissey: Yeah,
and particularly the
feeling of betrayal.
And I began to realize
that every great hero story has
an element of betrayal in it.
But I didn't get
that right away.
It wasn't that easy.
>> Lisa: Well, did
you get right away
that you were repeating
again another--
>> Morrissey: No.
>> Lisa: No?
>> Lisa: Of course not.
>> Morrissey: But my friend--
>> Lisa: Yeah.
>> Morrissey: -- But Jean
Houston pointed that out.
But-- what I did do that was
good for me and I would say
to anybody going through a
rough time is that the energy of
when it finally gets to where
it's really, really tough
in our lives, the--
you don't think
about when-- heat under water.
Water stays in its liquid state.
You pull a heat under it,
it takes a time for it
to get hot enough to go through
a phase change where it turns
from one state to another,
from liquid to gas.
>> Lisa: Liquid to gas.
>> Morrissey: By the time
it's really in chaos,
we know now with chaos
theory that is don't try
to scoop through that time.
Don't rush it.
It's a very potent powerful time
to really look at ourselves,
our lives, and what
matters to us
and what do we really
want to bring forth.
I went to the Oregon Coast,
all I knew when I was hurting
so much was just to get to the
Oregon Coast and walk the beach.
I thought I would stay for--
I rented a little place,
I thought I would stay for a few
days, I stayed for three months.
And the first few weeks,
all I could do was cry.
I was mad.
I was hurt.
I was blaming him how he
could left-- all the thoughts.
And then one day, I just heard,
"Mary, you're still breathing."
And I wept because I was so
happy to hear from that part
of myself that I had
leaned on and listened
to for many, many years.
And then I realized it had not
gone anywhere.
I was just broadcasting
sadness so loud
I couldn't hear it.
>> Lisa: Oh.
>> Morrissey: And then I heard,
"Dark chapter, not
your whole book."
And I was like, "I can
write a new-- oh, yes.
I could- this is a dark night of
the soul, it doesn't have
to be my whole-- the
whole rest of my life."
And I just began to
build again and I--
>> Lisa: That voice that
you thought was gone
or you could completely silence
you had just overshadowed.
>> Morrissey: I overshadowed.
>> Lisa: But you had
built her up ahead of time.
She was doing a lot
of work ahead of time.
>> Morrissey: It was a great
era even though it was the most
difficult era in some ways
but I would say later,
a couple years later in
my-- things begin to pick--
and within a few months, people
are calling me again to speak
and one of the things we
find and you'll find this
with the people with--
I know that you bring
here to your show.
We-- You and I have the
privilege of knowing and working
with amazing good
great human beings.
Not just great in there
success in the world
but deep down good people.
>> Lisa: Yes.
>> Morrissey: Which
is what Gaiam's--
>> Lisa: Yes.
>> Morrissey: -- about is
helping us all discover
that greatness in us.
>> Lisa: Yeah.
>> Morrissey: And
my friends showed up.
My friends said,
come be on my stage.
Do this. And within two years,
I had built another very,
very and more successful
business than the one I'd lost.
>> Lisa: What did you learn?
>> Morrissey: I learned
two things.
One of which is I would
never wish what I went
through on anybody
but I would wish
where it took me on everybody.
>> Lisa: Wow.
>> Morrissey: Because it was
so powerful for me to both
learn the power of, "All right,
look it square in the face,
own my part, remove the energies
that wanted to blame and attack
and just...looking back,
Steve Jobs said this
when he talked
about being fired from Apple.
He said, "You can always connect
the dots going backwards.
You can't connect the
dots going forward."
So I could look back
and say, "OK.
Well, I could have seen this.
I could have seen this.
I could have seen that."
It was a great learning
experience.
In life, I'm remarried.
I'm happy.
And my kids, I mean, I--
>> Lisa: I mean there are so
many people that have been
through this major, major
traumas and we see them
like you have a slide
here of Amelia Earhart.
>> Morrissey: Yeah.
>> Lisa: And what she had to
go through and the struggle
that she had to go
through as well.
>> Morrissey: That's right.
In an era where
women were not accepted
and she just was a woman
with the real fire in her
for what mattered to her
and I think that's really
powerful for any of us who want
to change a result in our life,
that we need the fire we have
to really make something happen
that has not yet happened
but we'd love for it to happen.
>> Lisa: So after all of that
and all of your experiences,
what age are you at, at
that particular pinnacle
of your life after the...?
>> Morrissey: I'm
about 55 at this point
when I lost the first-- the
business I built over 23 years.
And 54, 55.
>> Lisa: My goodness.
That's a learning
experience in itself.
>> Morrissey: Yeah.
It's a decade ago.
>> Lisa: It's not over.
>> Morrissey: Yeah,
it was a decade ago.
And I just began to build from
where I am with what I had
with the vision in mind,
which is what I learned to do
that everything is
created twice.
So if you want-- you know, when
you throw a bolt of fabric out,
that bolt of fabric will
become anything you tell it
to be a napkin, a table
cloth, a dress, a shirt,
give it a pattern
and life is pouring
through us every single day.
The energy of life and
we do give it a pattern.
We give it a pattern, which
is called our mindset.
What we deeply believe
and what we think about.
One of the key clues that
I work with individuals
and helping them
change their results,
if you keep breathing another
365 days you will have a life.
You can measure it, in
your health, in your--
the quality and depth of your
relationships, what you're doing
with your talent or not,
and your time and money
and freedom shows
up on your calendar,
it shows up in your checkbook.
We can measure it.
And that-- it's an effect,
it's not happening to us,
it's happening with us.
And one of the great things
you bring people is how
to change the result that
is happening in their life
if in fact they want
to change the result.
So, Steve Jobs--
>> Lisa: Sorry?
>> Morrissey: -- we
go back for him, yeah.
He-- you know, he watched the
Jetsons when he was a kid.
And he knew that if, you
know, if those things--
if you can think them
up, they can happen.
He studied Buddhism,
he understood
that if you can have
an idea in the mind,
you think with that the means
by which it can come
about isn't known.
Same thing that happened
with John Kennedy,
when John Kennedy-- I didn't
put a slide in here of him,
but when he said to Wernher von
Braun, the premier scientist
of that day, in the early '60s,
he says, "So what would it take
to send a man to the moon and
bring him back safely to Earth?"
And Wernher von Braun did
not talk about the amount
of money it would-- the
appropriations from Congress.
>> Lisa: Right.
>> Morrissey: -- the science
it would have to be developed
about Canaveral being
built or Houston being--
he didn't talk about
the astronauts.
He talked nothing about that.
He said five words.
"What would it take to
do this great thing?
What would it take to
do this great thing?"
And Wernher von Braun gave
him a five-word answer.
>> Lisa: OK.
>> Morrissey: The will to do it.
You have to have the will.
You said will earlier.
>> Lisa: Yes.
>> Morrissey: You
have the will--
>> Lisa: Yes, yes.
>> Morrissey: Even when the
circumstances don't work out.
You have to have the will even
when somebody doesn't approve.
>> Lisa: Yes.
>> Morrissey: You
have to have the will
when the money hasn't
shown up yet.
>> Lisa: Yes.
>> Morrissey: You
have to have the will.
This is the thing I'm doing.
>> Lisa: Yes.
>> Morrissey: And
then you get support.
>> Lisa: I have a
very strong will.
I know exactly what
you're talking about.
Sometimes it gets me in
a little bit of trouble
because I dream way too big.
But it gets you to that
place of uncomfortability
that you get to the next step.
So it's not easy.
>> Morrissey: No, it's not easy
and successful people are always
willing to be uncomfortable
in the interest of
growth, not in the interest
of just being uncomfortable.
>> Lisa: Well, I'm not willing
to be uncomfortable,
it just happens.
>> Morrissey: Well, some
part of you is
or it wouldn't
be happening.
>> Lisa: I guess so, right.
>>Morrissey: Yes.
>> Lisa: So what would you
tell people and it's so great
that you're here because you
are a true inspiration to people
who have been through such a
tough time and come out of it,
not once but twice
in teenage years
and then in an adult career.
So let's take a look at this
from a teaching perspective
and somebody is looking
at their, their health
and well-being in every
era of their life.
So you've got--
>> Morrissey: So when
you dream your dream.
So here's the deal.
You keep breathing
another 365 days times 3,
it's three years from now.
And look around, what would you
love your life to look like?
Because in the absence
of you giving
that mind you think with
an intelligent design,
like you put a pattern
on that bolt of fabric--
>> Lisa: OK.
>> Morrissey: -- if you
want it to be something.
>> Lisa: OK.
>> Morrissey: So you
give it a pattern,
blueprint it is the first phase.
>> Lisa: OK.
>> Morrissey: You blue print it.
You create a blueprint in
your mind but you can't do
that 'til you pay attention
to what it is your longing
and what it is your discontent.
You know, where am I feeling
crammed in, in my life?
Where am I feeling
like, "Uh, I just want--
I'm tired of playing the
money may I game?
I'm tired."
That's a good sign.
That's life telling
you, "Hey, I'm bigger."
>> Lisa: You've reached
your limit.
>> Morrissey: Yeah.
So, pay attention to your
longing and your discontent
and look at your
health and well-being,
what would you love it to be?
Just name it.
Get a picture for it like
taking your little boy
into kindergarten
class and you're going
down the hallway to your class.
>> Lisa: Nice.
>> Morrissey: That's a nice good
picture, three years from now,
health and well-being,
friendship.
Who are the friends in
your life right now?
What would you love those
friendships to be like?
Who would you love to have?
>> Lisa: Yeah.
>> Morrissey: You can talk..
like me, imagine talking
to the Dalai Lama
or Nelson Mandela.
I imagined them first long
before the meetings, shake
their hands--
>> Lisa: Interesting.
>> Morrissey: -- get to
know you, those it started
in the mind.
>> Lisa: You saw that first.
>> Morrissey: So what
would you love, romance.
For some of us, you
know, over the years,
one of the saddest things for me
is to hear somebody say, "Well,
it's not in the cards
for me, it's just not"--
or "it's not in my
soul pattern," or--
that is a superstitious
around romance
or any other result
in our life.
It's superstitious to say some
outside force is controlling my
ability to create a result
I would love as to look
down the street, on the street
where you're living, say, "Look,
everybody else gets
electricity but not me.
I guess it's not in
my soul pattern.
I am not hooked up
to the circuitry
that produces the result."
That's all it is.
>> Lisa: That's all of it--
that's all you're saying.
So--
>> Morrissey: So,
that's what it is.
Yes.
>> Lisa: So you look at--
>> Morrissey: My time
and money freedom.
Most of us have money patterns
that we inherited often as kids.
Money doesn't grow on trees,
you know, you have to save.
You know, save for a rainy
day, save for a rainy day.
Don't invest in a sunny life,
save for a rainy day.
And get your benefits,
you know, trade your life
on what you really care about
but be sure you have benefits.
I mean, a lot of
patterns get installed
or that money isn't spiritual,
or that rich people don't
have good ethics so they have
to be crooks to be-- I
mean, all of these ideas
that seep away, they're
like seeds in the garden
that can only grow the result
of the seed that it is.
So, one things is we help
people to get images
of what they would love.
It's very rare that
somebody really asks you,
what would you love rather than
what do you think you can do.
>> Lisa: What would you love?
>> Morrissey: What
would you love?
>> Lisa: I see that a lot
in your work that question.
What do you love?
What would you love?
>> Morrissey: Because
what happens is
when you watch somebody
when you start letting--
helping them talk
about what they love,
they light up that you
can just see it on them,
they light up because they--
it's just even in that moment,
even in their imagination,
life is getting released.
And give it a pattern, it
knows to do stuff you and I
on our own-- in our own
conscious mind would never know
how to do.
>> Lisa: Right, right.
>> Morrissey: But--
>> Lisa: Right.
>> Morrissey: -- it is
sacred, it's wonderful.
>> Lisa: Now.
Now, you also mentioned about
specificity like, you know,
in the case of travel.
So travel is something that
you have in terms of a goal
and you really want to travel.
>> Morrissey: Yeah, it matters--
yeah, if you say I just want
to travel in my life," your mind
can't get a picture for travel.
Your mind thinks in pictures.
So, if I say to you your
front door of where you live,
the kitchen sink in your house,
the bed you sleep in.
>> Lisa: Right.
>> Morrissey: You did not
see the letters, B-E-D.
You saw a picture of a bed.
You saw a picture of a sink.
>> Lisa: Right.
>> Morrissey: You saw
a picture of a door.
>> Lisa: Right.
>> Morrissey: So, when you
give the mind a picture,
it can pour energy
through that picture.
So, give it a-- you want to go
to India, you want to go to,
you know, Rome, give
it a picture.
One of my clients not too long
ago, she was struggling with--
you know, I said, "But
where would you love to go?"
and I'm thinking.
And she says, "Wyoming."
Oh, I said--
>> Lisa: Yeah.
>> Morrissey: -- "Wyoming,"
you know, and as of, you know,
in our world, you never tell--
we never know what
somebody is going to dream.
>> Lisa: Yeah.
>> Morrissey: Wyoming, OK--
>> Lisa: She wants to
go to the ranch, yeah.
>> Morrissey: I just
say, "Why is it-- why--
what's in Wyoming
you would love?"
And she said, "There's a place
there where they love animals
who had been used in
medical experiments,
and they love them back to life
and I want
to volunteer there
for two weeks."
And she dreamed it up.
And the next time I saw her,
it was about six months later
with another event and
she says, "Guess what,
I just got back from Wyoming."
And you could just see in her.
See, I never know what it is
it's going to like somebody up
but my work is about helping
them find what that is
and helping empower them.
>> Lisa: And just listening.
>> Morrissey: You know,
empower them so with
that can really be the
result they're having,
that's the fun part.
>> Lisa: So, the idea is being
specific, creating pictures,--
>> Morrissey: Yeah.
>> Lisa: -- creating vision
boards, which we talked about.
>> Morrissey: We
talked about, yeah.
>> Lisa: And all
right, so if you want--
>> Morrissey: A philanthropy,
yeah.
>> Lisa: -- and which
is what she did.
>> Morrissey: As you get your--
see money is really only good
for two things, money is good to
help you be comfortable enough
so you can be creative enough
to give your real gift,
I mean-- yeah, actually.
>> Lisa: Absolutely, absolutely.
>> Morrissey: Yeah.
And then-- so you can give
what you really, you know,
go where you want to go
and do what you want to do,
have it what you want to have
but that only goes so far,
the rest is give what
you really what to give.
And, I don't think there's
been a time in human history
where we need more people
to be free to be able
to help our world
than right now.
>> Lisa: Yes, absolutely.
>> Morrissey: And that's
why you do what you do
and why I do what I do.
>> Lisa: Absolutely.
>> Morrissey: Yeah.
>> Lisa: So, tell me
the story of a client
that had amazing success.
>> Morrissey: Yes, all right.
There was
woman named Dani who worked
for the city of Portland who
came to an event I was doing
and we were going through the
dream builder exercises.
First, we were-- and she
was pretty stuck on the,
what would you love because she
had a pattern in her program
that said, "When I retire
then I can", and that program
because she'd had a job
where she had benefits
and she was well-patterned
with--
you do the job for 30 years then
you go do something you'd really
love to do.
And I said, "Well, just
tell me about your life.
When do you come most
alive?
And she said, "Well, besides
with my kids and my husband.
My job is good but
in the spring,
when I plant my fragrant flowers
and I grow hanging baskets,
I build five hanging
baskets every year.
I gave one to my
mother and my sister,
and then all year I'm thinking
about whom I going to give.
It might be the new
female mayor.
It might be the new junior
high female principal.
But I'm always thinking what--
who are other three women.
I love that part of my life.
I just come alive during
that part of my life."
I said, "Dani, what
if you could have more
of that in your life?"
She said, "No, no, no."
She said, "After I retire,
then I think I'll have a little
garden and dah, dah, dah,"
and we just helped her-- just
imagine long enough and she felt
so alive in that imagination and
she just had a great event.
She was there.
She went away.
I didn't think I'd
ever see her again
but within a month she came
back, asked for an appointment
and she and her husband, Jeff,
who was a truck driver
had made a decision she'd gone
and gotten a leave of
absence from her job for a year,
they'd found a plot of ground.
They'd borrowed some
money on their equity.
She had a plan she had a name,
Ferguson's Fragrant Nursery,
and they found a place and
it was outside of Portland.
I said, "Dani, you know,
this is old same location,
location, location."
And now, I'm being the,
you know, doubting--
>> Lisa: Yeah, right.
>> Morrissey: --
doubting one there.
And she said, "No, no, no.
It is going to
become a landmark place.
People are going to
travel to come there.
We're going to have-- we're
going to weddings.
We're going to
have ceremonies,
and we're
going to have wine parties."
And she dreamed this
dream within a year.
Jeff had quit his job.
He is helping build this thing.
>> Lisa: Wow.
>> Morrissey: Those are
her-- those were Dani's--
this is probably two and a
half or three years into it.
There is Dani's-- not
just five baskets, I mean,
cities would come and order
them for their main streets.
>> Lisa: Oh my goodness.
>> Morrissey: She was speaking--
Sunset Magazine was
doing articles about her.
She was speaking at the garden
clubs in the...
>> Lisa: Was it because of the
rags-to-riches story or because
a pursue your dream story?
>> Morrissey: It was a dream--
for me isn't probably
never really riches,
it was that she loved this
thing right into existence
and that she was so passionate
about fragrant flowers,
she was so passionate
about what happens.
So, we can see-- yeah,
there's the gardens and--
>> Lisa: She created her dream.
>> Morrissey: She and
Jeff created their dream.
Their kids grew up working
in the nursery with them.
They had many, many
people employed
and about two years ago, Lisa,
I get a call in a January,
I'd long since we move to
California, this was in Oregon.
It's January.
I just pick-- randomly
picked up my phone
and it's Dani and
Dani is crying.
And she says-- I said,
"Dani, what's going on?"
And she's could hardly get
it out and she said, "Mary,
I woke up this morning
and Jeff didn't."
I was, "Oh, Dani,
I'm so sorry."
>> Lisa: How old was Dani.
>> Morrissey: 57 years old.
He went to bed, he
didn't wake up.
He had a heart attack
in the night.
And she asked me if
I'd come to Oregon
and perform his cer--
memorialize, of course.
And here's the moment I
want to pass on is that we--
a family usually
gathers with the minister
or the person conducting
the service
in a private room while
people gather in a sanctuary.
And then there's the front
row is saved.
And so as the family is
filing out
and her kids are now grown but
I mean everyone is...
no one got to say goodbye.
It's very-- was very sad.
And just before Dani was
walking out, I was coming
out behind her and she turned
around, she took my hands
and with tears, she looked at
me and she said, "Thank you.
Thank you.
We would still be
waiting for good benefits.
I'd still be waiting
for my benefits."
And then, it's a little funny on
one side but on the other side,
and she said, "I would
still be waiting."
And she said, "The real benefit
is that I got to work side
by side with Jeff with all
those hours, all those days--
>> Lisa: All those years.
>> Morrissey: -- all
that time together.
>> Lisa: Yeah.
>> Morrissey: My kids got
to work with their dad. We
got to instill his
values in them."
She said, "We never
thought this was coming.
We would have
still been waiting."
>> Lisa: That's full circle.
>> Morrissey: And I--
>> Lisa: That's the reason
to follow your dreams.
>> Morrissey: That's the
reason to follow your dream.
You don't get to stay again.
>> Lisa: You'll never know.
>> Morrissey: And
he never get this--
it's not on a morbid
you know, it's not that.
It's just that you will
never get this day again,
not one of us.
Not in eternity.
>> Lisa: So what do you love?
>> Morrissey: And
what do you love.
Make it matter today.
>> Lisa: Wow.
>> Morrissey: And make it
matter on your calendar.
>> Lisa: That is-- that's
such a great story and it's
such an inspirational story for
people that are in that place
that they know that there is
something better but terrified
to go ahead and try it.
You mentioned here-- now,
the practicality of how to do
that is always scary, but you
go back to these great quotes,
here's one from Albert
Einstein that you say--
>> Morrissey: Yeah.
>> Lisa: "Everything is energy,
and that's all there is."
Explain to me why this makes
so much sense to you.
>> Morrissey: Well we
know now with physics.
I mean, there's different
names for it some of
which is most recent
is the string theory
that every electron, every--
even visible and
invisible energy is--
they call it now it's
sitting and superposition,
meaning it would become
anything you tell it.
And that the observer affect
is that whatever you believe,
things organize around
that belief
because if I have a white piece
of paper and I put a magnet
under it, and I put iron
filings on this paper,
they're just randomly
lying there.
When I bring a magnet to it,
they move into the pattern.
I can't see it with
my five senses
but there is a magnetic field
that organizes how those iron
filings move into a pattern.
Our thinking has
a pattern to it.
It communicates through the
spinal fluid up and down
on our spinal cord, moves to
our tissues or every cell organ
and it doesn't end
with our skin.
So, when we're hungry, we see
things to eat or are tuned
to look for what
we're interested in.
>> Lisa: Right.
>> Morrissey: Some of us have
got interested in our problems.
And so we get--
>> Lisa: That's what
we look for.
>> Morrissey: -- to see
more and more problems.
>> Lisa: That's what
we look for.
>> Morrissey: So, when we train
people to get interested in,
which is what you're doing with
your show, how to get interested
in what really matters to you.
And one of the major
clues is
to notice what you're noticing.
If you-- it's a practice
where you start and--
>> Lisa: Where are
your thoughts?
>> Morrissey: Start noticing.
And is it expansive?
Lean into it.
If it's contractive,
rearrange it.
>> Lisa: So, rearrange it just
like this picture shows here.
I love this picture of
the little fish jumping
into the big fishbowl.
>> Yeah, when Einstein
says match the frequency
and the reality you
want, it must be yours,
just like when your television
comes on if you're tired of CNN,
constantly negative
news, CNN just tune in
to a different frequency.
All those don't have
to do therapy
to get
those pictures to go away--
>> Lisa: But this picture here,
it shows that the fish is
jumping into a bigger bowl?
>> Morrissey: Yeah, bigger bowl.
That's its dream.
And right now--
>> Lisa: OK.
>> Morrissey: -- it's in midair.
We don't even know if
he's going to make it.
But we know it couldn't possibly
make it if doesn't do that job.
>> Lisa: And it dreams
of the bigger bowl.
>> Morrissey: Well, the
Talmud said, "Every blade
of grass has an angel that leans
over it and whispers grow, grow,
grow," and that blade of grass
will press through cement--
>> Lisa: Yes.
>> Morrissey: -- seeking
to be the best blade
of grass it can become.
That same impulse is in every
one of us, become more, share,
give, be more, every day,
we're feeling it.
If we don't express
it and we suppress it,
it has to create a symptom
of some kind to say, "Hey."
>> Lisa: That's true.
>> Morrissey: Yeah.
>> Lisa: And it will show it
to us in disease form or--
>> Morrissey: Right, yeah.
>> Lisa: Exactly.
>> Morrissey: Absolutely.
>> Lisa: So now, there's
another story that you have of--
I think his name is John.
Is that John?
>> Morrissey: Yeah.
This is a fun story for me
because this is actually my--
this is the son that was
born in December of 1966.
The one that was
born when I'm going
to Washington Evening
High School and--
>> Lisa: This is your son
that we're talking about?
>> Morrissey: Yes.
>> Lisa: Oops, that
looks...
>> Morrissey: So, that's the
house of he and his wife Dora,
lived in with their son Ricardo.
And then-- and it's a
perfect little house
and they're totally contented
and they live in Cabo San Lucas,
Mexico and he is growing in
his management career there.
And then--
>> Lisa: This is your son?
>> Morrissey: My
son, my only son.
>> Lisa: OK.
OK.
>> Morrissey: So this is about--
and this is John and Dora,
and Ricardo a number of years
ago, and then they're grown.
They have two new
babies, their two twins,
Kara
and Kayla come in the world.
And then, I go to visit John
and I said to him, this is--
several years later and I said--
we're sitting on his patio
having a glass of iced tea
that night after his work.
And I said, "So,
what's next for you?"
And he says, "Next?
What do you mean what's next?"
And I said, "Well, I
mean, what's your dream?
What's your-- " and
he said, "I'm happy.
I've got a great family.
I've got great nice work."
That's great.
And I mean you don't
have to have a dream
but usually life sends signals
about something you would love
to create or bring forth.
>> Lisa: This is your--
>> Morrissey: Yeah,
this is my own son.
>> Lisa: This is
his mother talking.
>> Morrissey: I know.
>> Lisa: This is mother talking.
>> Morrissey: And he's like Mom,
what do you mean what's next."
>> Lisa: Yeah.
>> Morrissey: I said,
"Well, if you could be
or do anything you wanted.
He said, "Well, I'd like to have
a bigger house because I'm--
we're cramped in here."
So, they had bought
a piece of property
in Overhill with some savings.
But he said, "We're going to
be able to build on that house
because there's no
financing in Mexico."
And he said, "You know,
we've saved up our money
and bought this house."
But he said, "We're not in
camp-- there's no finance."
And that's true.
I mean, these are the facts and
this is the challenge for any
of us is the facts never
give you permission.
>> Lisa: No, yeah.
>> Morrissey: You have
to get your permission
from a different realm,
which is where Einstein went
to get his permission,
where Edison went
where Steve Jobs went
to get his permission.
Anyone who's an innovator and
creates beyond the boundaries
of what ordinary
people create know
that the mind they have the
idea in has a means to bring it
about that the conditions
don't yet know about.
The conditions are an effect of
the mindset that we've been in.
If we make an agreement,
it's going to be tough,
guess what it's going to be.
>> Lisa: Well, I mean, a loan is
a perfect example.
You've got banks.
You've got rigid structures--
>> Morrissey: That's right.
>> Lisa: -- you've got
rules, you've got laws,
and there's no getting by those.
>> Morrissey: And
that's absolutely right
as it exist right now.
And I just said, but what
if there's some way
you don't know about?
What if there's a way that
you could build your house
that isn't in the
ordinary way of thinking,
how would that occur?"
And he said, "I have no
idea how that would occur."
And I said, "I know
how it would occur."
>> Lisa: You do?
>> Morrissey: Yeah, I do.
It occurs because
you do everything.
You keep the picture, you get
the picture clear in your mind
and you do everything you
can do with what you do have,
life does somethings
you can't make happen
but you've made welcome
because your work way
up to a new frequency
of being, a new mindset.
I said, "What could you
do with what you have?"
And he says, "Well, we could--
if you love.."
So, he-- they loved it
in to their, you know,
a picture in their mind.
And he said well-- you
know, I call this--
you know, if you think about
it many businesses,
many great things have started
out on cocktail napkins,
somebody at dinner said,
"You know.." and they draw a
little picture of it.
>> Lisa: So, you asked him
what it would look like.
>> Morrissey: I asked him
And so, he started drawing
some pictures of it.
>> Lisa: Oh, this is a picture
that was drawn on a napkin?
>> Morrissey: Yes it was.
And he showed a picture of it.
And I said, "So,
if you were serious
about this, what would you do?"
And he said, "Well, I
figured out where I'm going
to get a loan so I could
get the blueprints."
And I said, "Well, how much are
the blueprints going to cost?"
He says, "15,000
dollars probably."
And I said, "Do you
have 15,000 dollars?"
And he said, "Well, I do, but
I'm not going to do it.
Why would I design-- why
would I put 15,000 dollars
into something I'm
not going to build?"
And I said, "You'll
never build it
if you don't have a blueprint."
And he trusted me enough
to do what he could
do with what he had.
And they had-- at first--
this is an important clue.
They had the architect
draw design for what they--
that maybe they could figure
out some way for this to happen.
And when they went in to see
the design, it was a draft
and then he said, "If I'm
going to spend 15,000 dollars
on a house I'm not going to
build, by golly, I'm going
to spend it on a house
I would love to build.
And they stretched out the walls
and they heightened the ceilings
and they expanded and they built
a dream house in their mind
and they built a
dream house on paper.
And so I--
>> Lisa: So, they put it
all into that.
>> Morrissey: I've got the
dream house built on paper.
He called me and says, "I got
the dream house on paper."
And I said, "That's
your first big win."
And then, the next
step was they--
>> Lisa: How long did
he sit on that for,
and how long did he
look at that for?
>> Morrissey: It took
him about six months.
No, it took him about six
months to do what he needed
to do to get his blueprint, put
it on his walls in his office.
And then--
>> Lisa: Did he look
at it every day?
>> Morrissey: He
put it on the walls
in the office he
worked in every day.
>> Lisa: OK.
>> Morrissey: And then, he--
I said, "So, how's it going?"
And he said, "Well, I'm
looking at the pictures."
And I said, "So, what could
you do with what you have?"
"What do you want me
to do, sell my house?"
And I said, "So, how
much could you get
for your house you're in."
He said, "150,000 dollars."
And I said, "Well,
what if you did
that what could you
build with that 150?"
He says, "Mom, I could
build a foundation."
And I said, "I wonder
what would happen
if you built a foundation?"
>> Lisa: Oh, my God.
>> Morrissey: And so--
A week later, a guy walks in
his office who said, "You know,
I'm looking for a little house
to invest in here in Cabo,
do you know anybody, a realtor?
John says, "Really?
Well, my wife and I are thinking
about selling our house.
We're not sure where we're
going to go with it."
And he says, "Well, I'm
actually not going to move
down here for three years."
And John said, "Really."
And he says, "So,
you'd be interested
in renting the house
back if you bought it?"
"Oh yeah, I just
want to invest."
He went up.
They did a handshake
deal, 150,000.
He bought John and Dora's house.
They got to live
in it, and they put
that 150,000 into a foundation.
And that's Ricardo
standing in the space
that would become his bedroom.
And they--
>> Lisa: What?
>> Morrissey: Yes.
And John was going
up there every day
and he would take the family and
he'd walk around and imagine it
into existent just like
I had walked in my mind
with that little boy who
became John in my hand
into kindergarten into his
graduation.
And he's taking his family
and they're enthusiastic.
And one day, he's up there
looking around at the foundation
and talking with the
builders and it seemed
that 150 turned into something.
And a guy drives by and
says, "What are you doing?"
He said, "I'm building
my dream house."
And he says, "Really?
Well, tell me about it."
I said, "Let me walk
you through it."
He never met this guy before.
It turned out this guy, there
was a new-- it was experimental.
They were going to do
24 homes financing.
Not the final-- they knew a
final financing was coming
in that they were
doing an experiment
it was... I'll think of
their names, one
of the major mortgage companies
in the U.S. This is 2006,
this started.
>> Lisa: Oh, OK.
>> Morrissey: So 2007,
now 2000s
they got this far that in 2000--
>> Lisa: So wait, they're
building this house
with not knowing how
they're going to get walls.
>> Morrissey: Absolutely.
>> Lisa: You're kidding me?
>> Morrissey: No,
I'm not, I'm not.
Now, you have to be willing to--
you have to be willing
to lose if you do this.
>> Lisa: Yeah, a
big leap of faith.
>> Morrissey: Well, but
the foundation was going
to stay there.
John did this with it.
I said, "You know, John, if
you get the foundation done
and it takes three more years or
five more years, who you become
at the end and who
you're becoming
as you do this is way more
than if you sat and waited
for something to happen.
You're building your dream.
You get to own that
I'm building my dream.
It might take longer
than I would prefer
but I'm building my dream."
As it turned out, this
guy says, "You know,
there's this mortgage coming
in that, you know, where--
Gold and Sachs, that's
who it was--
is bringing some financing
in and we're looking for people
that have built-- and they
will only give you financing
if you've built three
quarters done.
You have to get complete
framing, roof
work everything three quarters
done, then they'll finance.
And he said, "We're
doing Angel loans
to help people get
three quarters done."
And we're-- there's a pretty
stringent dah, dah, dah, but--
>> Lisa: What are the odds?
>> Morrissey: He said
what are the odds?
See, at the end of the day,
odds are statistics only applied
to groups, not one
of us is a statistic.
You're either on the frequency
of your dream or you're off
waiting for something else to
happen out there, maybe someday.
And so he shows up.
You can't make it happen
but you can make it welcome
by being a magnetic attraction
for the thing you want.
>> Lisa: What about
the fear and the doubt?
>> Morrissey: Yeah.
Here's the deal on
the daily basis--
>> Lisa: Risk.
>> Morrissey: -- you
have to feed your faith
and starve your doubt.
And, you know, it's not easy.
On occasion doubt-- and you
go, I'm building this dream.
It might take longer
than I would prefer,
we're going to be OK.
You know, I wouldn't--
there was no worry
that they wouldn't have
a roof over their head.
That he didn't put
his family at risk.
>> Lisa: Right, right.
>> Morrissey: There is
no worry about that.
He had the opportunity at a
certain point in his life.
And almost every one of
us has an opportunity
to do something more
than we've been doing
with our current circumstances.
Regardless the next-- you'll see
in the next picture
they got it done.
>> Lisa: The next
picture is done.
>> Morrissey: So they
got the Angel money.
And then they-- so they
build it to three quarters,
at which point they went in
to sign the papers on the loan
and the guys said, "You
got to know something.
They shut this program down.
You are the last
loan in Mexico."
And to this day, there's never
been financing in Mexico since.
>> Lisa: So, he got that window?
>> Morrissey: And he was the
last loan before Gold and Sachs
stopped doing Mexico.
And he said to me, "Imagine mom.
If I hadn't done what I could
do at the moment I could do it,
I wouldn't have been ready to
receive the one-time opening."
There was a little open window.
I was there at the right moment.
He said, "How did
you know that?"
I said, "I didn't know that."
>> Lisa: You didn't know that.
>> Morrissey: I didn't
know the specifics.
I know though and I've come over
years to see it over and over
and over again that if you have
a dream in your mind and you're
in love with it and you do what
you can do with what you do have
and take the steps
you can take--
>> Lisa: One step at a time
is what really getting here.
>> Morrissey: -- that life
does some things you can't make
happen but you made
them welcome.
>> Lisa: Do you feel--
and here's the picture
of his beautiful home,
which is stunning and
there's incredible pictures
of the house.
>> Morrissey: Yeah.
>> Lisa: But, this is what I--
my question is, this picture
here where he's in the pool
it's an infinity pool,
overlooking the ocean in Mexico
with his two beautiful-- three
children, I think are there,
does it take purpose in
order to make these things?
Do you think that's
the missing ingredient
or I should say the
main ingredient
to make these things happen?
That he wanted-- he wanted
space, he wanted expansion,
he wanted-- he had purpose.
Don't you think?
>> Morrissey: Yes, I
love-- purpose is--
we're in a spiral universe.
So, there's ever-- in every
turn of the spot, there's a pull
to the more in
every one of us in every blade
of grass and every-- all of
us, there's a pull to the more.
And there's also
the pull
of the contraction
of the familiar.
>> Lisa: Sure, sure.
>> Morrissey: So you-- we
danced between those polarities.
>> Lisa: Sometimes
that's stronger.
>> Morrissey: In particular, if
we pay attention to it can be--
it's like-- it's huge, you know?
>> Lisa: OK.
>> Morrissey: Yeah, so that's
why you feed your faith
and you starve your fear.
The purpose is the fire.
It's like if you want
water to turn into steam,
you got to have some
fire underneath it,
when Napoleon Hill talked
about a burning desire.
So, you have-- it has to be
that this matters so much to you
that you're willing to love
it right into existence
with what you have as best
you can from where you are.
If the first phase of
what you can do is turn it
into a paper version of itself.
Then love that into at least a
foundation of itself and then
at least a wall of itself.
Do what you can do with what you
have and watch new ideas come.
Things start to show up.
Things change because
you've change.
At the end of the day, you
can't make anything happen
but you can make it welcome
by you doing what you can do.
>> Lisa: Is it ever too late?
>> Morrissey: No, it
is never too late.
That's Dorothy Manin, my
mother on her 92nd birthday.
>>Lisa: I love how you
use your family
members as your examples
because it's perfect.
>> Morrissey: I got so on
fire with this that my family
at first was just
like, "Oh, my God."
>> Lisa: Oh, and that's people
that you would actually--
>> Morrissey: Yeah.
>> Lisa: -- ever talk
to about this, yeah.
>> Morrissey: And my mother--
I mean, I was in this for many,
many years and after my
father died, my mother went
into a deep funk
for about six months
and then one day called
me and said, "All right.
You know, if I'm
still breathing,
there's probably something I
should be doing with my life
and let me take one of
those programs you do."
And we just started
with something--
there's nothing I love.
There's not-- I love your dad."
It's like that.
>> Lisa: Is there anything
you've ever entertained
that might even be
a little bit of fun.
And let's just take
a baby step."
And so, she began to take
a china painting class.
So that turned into--
and all want to say is
that over the next
seven years of her life,
from 85 to 92 was the most
creative, generative period
of her life because she was
willing to learn the system that
unlocks and unleashes the power
each one of us have
to live a life we love living
in a way that matters to us.
Nobody will love
it the same way.
She long-- she wrote a book-- at
her 90th birth, we celebrate--
>> Lisa: We have a
picture of the book here.
>> Morrissey: Yeah.
Put a Zip in Your Day.
>> Lisa: I love it. Put a Zip in
Your--
>> Morrissey: Anyways-- I
have to put a zip
in your day and all of which she
has tried and done by the way.
>> Lisa: And what age is she?
>> Morrissey: That
was her 90th birthday.
She printed that.
She sold bunches of them
and she started a nonprofit.
With that to give microloans.
She did microlending
for Northwest veterans
who had been impacted by
the Iraq-Afghanistan War.
>> Lisa: Oh.
>> Morrissey: Because she had
been impacted with World War II
with my dad having to been
gone and the Korean War
gone-- having been gone.
>> Lisa: So, she had a
place in heart for that?
>> Morrissey: Another woman
marrying Woodman,
who is 87 there and-- well,
when somebody asked her, "So,
would you like to get
married at this point?"
She said, "No, I don't
think I want to get married
but a little loose living,
that'd be good."
[ Laughter ]
And what I love is, you know,
we think sometimes people
in older bodies have-- or
any of us that sort of thing.
Then, lot-- as long as life
is breathing as it wants
to express itself and it will
always give us a new dream.
>> Lisa: So, your
steps are in this--
the dream builder steps is the
way that you talk to people
about and you can download
that free on your website.
>> Morrissey: Yes.
>> Lisa: There's worksheets you
can work through, which is great
because I appreciate you help
us ask the right questions.
>> Morrissey: Thank you.
>> Lisa: Through your
years of experience,
where we would just normally
get completely stuck you give us
a framework from which to work.
So, you're saying
that just to create--
there's a few steps
on that dream builder
that you have here,
finding point A--
>> Morrissey: That's right.
>> Lisa: -- and really,
really getting clear
about what you want.
So, for example, there's a
for sale, and if you trying
to sell your house, get
a picture, put it out--
>> Morrissey: That's right.
>> Lisa: -- just
like a vision board--
>> Morrissey: That's right.
>> Lisa: -- do that, right?
>> Morrissey: In this
particular PowerPoint was
about a house we wanted
to sell at a time
when the housing market was down
and no one believed we
could sell a house.
And I'd looked at my husband,
I said, "We're either going
to make an agreement with
circumstance or we're going
to make an agreement
with vision."
And here's the truth, it only
takes one and what if it's easy.
And so, we kept hooking to that
idea that it only takes one
and what if it's easy and
I-- we made a decision.
We're selling our
house to somebody
who loves our house
the way we've loved it
at a fair price we
all feel good about.
It just takes one and
what if it's easy.
But we were planning
to put our house
on the market the
following week.
The day where we just kept
saying that, drawing, agreeing,
and we-- you know, it's
like, doing our best
and not pay attention to all
the houses in our neighborhood
that were going down, down,
down in price and say, "Well."
And be willing to
stay on the frequency
of what we were dreaming.
Stay on the mindset.
It could happen and really--
there is that there--
in all the possibilities--
>> Lisa: It only takes one--
>> Morrissey: And
what it's easy?
>> Lisa: -- and what
if it's easy.
That's a great phrase.
>> Morrissey: Why not
have it be that way?
Since I'm going to
make it up anyway,
let me make it up for that way.
>> Lisa: Wow.
>> Morrissey: And the day we're
moving out, somebody knocks
on the door and says,
"You're moving out?
We heard you had the best yard.
Can we see your house?"
I said,
"You know what your house looks
like when you're moving out?"
>> Lisa: Yeah.
>> Morrissey: And how that
woman knocked on my door--
and our door is because
my husband had gone
out to get the mail the
very last time that day
and Caroline, it's in a culdesac
neighborhood we were in.
She pushes a stroller and she
says, "Joe, you're moving."
"Yes, I know."
"We love the neighborhood,"
tell him about the new house.
"What do you do with
this house?"
And what he said is,
"We're selling this house.
Would you know somebody
who wants to live
in this great neighborhood?"
And she goes, "You
know, I think I do."
She calls them.
They come, they knock
on the door.
They buy the house,
fair price.
They love the house.
To this day we see them at
Christmas and...
Now, if we were thinking about
selling the house or thinking,
"Well, at least give a try,"
when she asking what would you--
what are you doing
with the house?
He wouldn't say I'm--
we're selling it.
He would say, "Well, we're going
to try to sell it," because--
but you know, the market.
>> Lisa: Right.
>> Morrissey: And then they have
a conversation about the market.
>> Lisa: Right, right, right.
>> Morrissey: Because
he was saying,
"We're selling the house."
The idea he gets on I'm selling
the house is a different idea
than the idea he'll get if
he's trying to sell the house.
>> Lisa: And the market
conversation takes it
in endless.
>> Morrissey: Completely.
And she knows somebody who
would love to buy the house
but you can't find that on--
you can't find Discovery on CNN.
It's not going to be there.
>> Lisa: Yeah.
It's not going to be there,
It'll be the Discovery
Channel, that's right.
>> Morrissey: Yeah.
You can't find Gaiam
on the CNN, yeah.
>> Lisa: Oh, my goodness. So
look, it sold.
>> Morrissey: So,
it's sold, of course.
>> Lisa: And that's amazing.
>> Morrissey: Yeah.
>> Lisa: So, back to the whole
fish bowl idea is
that there is something bigger
out there for all of us,
we just need to-- there is
one, why not make it easy?
I've got write down all the
things that you said.
>> Morrissey: Yeah.
And actually it's not really--
yeah, but there is
something bigger.
It's not necessarily out there.
It will be out there if we
get it really strong in here.
So, just a really good
place to start and a place
that most people don't allow,
we spend on average more
time planning a weekend trip
than we spend planning a
life we would love living.
>> Lisa: That's a good point.
Yes. Actually, I didn't get
to the step two and three
of the dream builder toolkit.
Step two was designing the dream
and painting point
B, visioning it.
>> Morrissey: That's
right, yeah.
>> Lisa: Yes, visioning it.
And then, step three
is what is your "why."
>> Morrissey: Yes, when
you ask your purpose.
Why do you want-- why do
you want the bigger house?
I want my family healthy.
I want to have some room
where I can, you know, express
and he wanted his own
private office and he wanted
to have a place where he
could be quiet if he want to
and be noisy if he wanted to.
He wanted his kids to have
room to run, play, and not jump
on each other and trip
on each other and a place
where they could
entertain and have guest
and the why is what life looks
like unleashed and it has
to be something that when
you feel it inside yourself,
you do go, "I would love that."
>> Lisa: So, do you take all
of those things, that vision
that you just mentioned.
Write that down and vision
that out five minutes a day,
10 minutes a day, is that--
>> Morrissey: The visioning
in the morning is meant
to help you ask some questions.
When you get on your
computer, you just--
the whole internet is available
to you but the only thing
that comes to you was what you
tell it you're interested in.
>> Lisa: Right.
>> Morrissey: So--
And that you learn
to ask a really good question
because the search engines
cannot give you a quality answer
if you don't ask a
really good question.
I asked it one day, movie
theaters in Seaside,
I was 10 miles from Seaside.
You know, how many seasides in
the world there are?
I had to say Seaside, Oregon.
>> Lisa: Yes.
>> Morrissey: Then boom!
That movie theater,
the address, the times
and their movies
were right there.
It's the same thing.
So, in the morning, when
you're visioning, part of--
you see yourself in it,
you're-- but what could I do?
So, when I'm seeing
myself walk my little boy
into kindergarten and
nothing is happening,
I'm barely able to-- you know,
it's like what could I do?
Well, I could I sign
up for a class.
Today, I could sign up for a
class in September. This was
the end of July and I'm starting
to look a little better.
>> Lisa: Yeah, and you-- ?
>> Morrissey: I could
sign up for class.
I may waste that 30 bucks or
whatever I put as a down payment
on so I start to-- I
do the thing I can do.
So, that's the questioning in
the morning but what could I do
with what I have to at least
take a step in the direction
of my dream, and it's amazing.
If you will take those steps,
what starts to show up.
>> Lisa: I can see--
>> Morrissey: Yeah.
>> Lisa: -- how you
help people make their--
turn their possibilities
into realities.
>> Morrissey: I do.
>> Lisa: Thank you so much.
I want to go back and
watch a replay of the show,
right everything that
you said because you are
so inspirational
and so motivational.
>> Morrissey: Thank you.
>> Lisa: Thank you.
I would like to--
>> Morrissey: I've a
line, Lisa.
It's just that inspiration
without action is
merely entertainment.
The entertainment is good but
it doesn't change your life.
>> Lisa: True, so do it.
>> Morrissey: I hope
people would do something
with what they heard
today and take one step,
anyway baby steps will take you
all the way up on Mount Everest
if we just keep taking them.
>> Lisa: Yup, absolutely.
It's baby steps that
makes you get there
and it is definitely an
inspiration on your part--
>> Morrissey: Thank you.
>> Lisa: -- but definitely
take action.
So thank you so much
for being here.
>> Morrissey: Thank
you. You're amazing.
Thank you, thank you.
>> Lisa: And thank you
so much for watching.
If you want to watch a
replay like I'm going
to do, go to gaiamtv.com.
You can watch the replay of
my show with Mary Morrissey.
And until next time, I
invite you to stay inspired.
[ Music ]